The Four Courts are the social structure of the [[Feywild]]. Nearly all [[Fey]] are aligned with one of the courts. The courts are far less rigidly structured than the noble courts of [[Dennar]], with the only specifically mandated structure being the position of [[Great Fairy]]. The courts are in frequent conflict over territory and prominence amongst each other, with the [[Summer Court]] currently holding a tenuous position of prominence, although recent cooperation between the [[Autumn Court]] and the [[Gnomes]] of [[Dennar]] has led to a strengthening of their power.

The 4 courts are each aligned with a season, and their politics generally correspond to how the seasons are perceived. However, younger [[Fey]] are often slightly more encouraged to explore their own beliefs and desires as a part of their development. Social pressures usually result in them aligning themselves with the beliefs of their court or finding an interpretation of the court values that suit them, but some [[Fey|fairies]] believe their viewpoints different enough to warrant a switching of court allegiances. This is somewhat rare and very costly socially especially among older, more established fairies, as they are often viewed with suspicion both by their current and previous courts.

The [[Winter Court]] is a conservative, isolationist faction. They believe in the maintenance of the status quo, believing that the risks of change are a more relevant concern than the potential benefits, and the pursuit of knowledge, hoping to understand and preserve the world as it is. [[Fey]] of the [[Winter Court]] are often characterized by their pursuit of knowledge and more subtle approaches to achieving their aims.

The [[Spring Court]] is one of the least ideologically decentralized courts, with individual Spring fairies spending their time in the pursuit of art and individual growth. They often choose an art, craft, or science and devote their lives to pushing the boundaries of it. Disagreements within the [[Spring Court]] are often resolved by competitions rather than the cold debate of the [[Winter Court]] or the hot combat of the [[Summer Court]].

The [[Summer Court]] is the most boisterous of the courts, in which the resident [[Fey]] hold dueling as a most sacred rite. [[Summer Court|Summer]] [[Fey|fairies]] vie for social standing by engaging in combat with their peers to raise their position with the Rankings, a giant list showing a hierarchy of prowess among their numbers. While this internal conflict least to individuals of notable strength, at times rivalries within the [[Summer Court]] lead to a disunited society that lowers their ability to project power to the other courts.

The [[Autumn Court]], in contrast to the [[Winter Court]], espouses higher levels of engagement with the mortal world. It was the first to welcome in refugee [[Elves]] from [[Elandir]] after the [[Shattering of Elandir]], and the belief of the court is that engagement with the less long-sighted mortals leads to the growth and development of [[Fey]] society along with the mortals. 